okay well welcome everyone in this astro
community i'm
super excited to have bernadette nixon
the ceo of algolia here
we're gonna have a fun conversation on a
bunch of levels
um algolia has been part of saster since
the very beginning i was lucky enough to
lead their first seed round when i think
it was six people um
one in the u.s and we've had someone
from algolia participate in every saster
event
uh for for years and then it's exciting
to have bernadette here come as the ceo
as the company pushes through 100
million and then a billion in revenue
and even more interesting she joined
we're all distributed to we're all
running distributed teams today
but bernadette's super interesting
because she agreed to join just before
covet hit
um and probably was getting her boxes
packed and ready to move into her office
and then all of a sudden covet hit and
you've met
you've met like four people in the
company when you joined is that right
i i have met two algolians so far
but what did you have to change what did
you have to change that was different
than when you took the jobs
well i guess the good thing is that i've
been remote for 10 years
so i guess that was a good background
going into this
quite honestly so i didn't have to
change a huge amount but it did have to
um i had to edit some of the approach so
you know
frankly frankly covered or
all of us being remote as we were when i
joined
it was a bit of a leveling of the
playing field which was interesting
because ordinary i'd have joined i'd
have been in san francisco in person
and you know we've got a large
population as you know
overseas in in france in the uk you know
and they would have you know
felt a little bit like kind of left out
of the of the fun and the excitement so
it was actually being you know i was in
my office here at home as i am today
um and it was a great sort of it leveled
the playing field everybody felt that
they were
on the you know the same uh the same
level
in terms of getting to know me and and
vice versa
so i've always done listening tours when
i've started
a new position um normally or in person
but i do one or two usually that are
virtual obviously i had to make it all
virtual this time so
made it smaller groups and did more of
them for longer
so for the first six weeks i was
probably doing three listening
um uh list part of the three meetings on
the listening tour
uh three times a week for probably my
first six weeks
and then also started layering in skip
levels to get to know people you know
half an hour here and there and
20 minutes of that could be nothing to
do with algolia
because i was trying to simulate you
know i'd have these conversations if i
was bumping to people
bumping into them in the kitchen making
a coffee you know how do you simulate
that you have to be
i think more intentional about that sort
of stuff
yeah the listening tour is interesting
um a lot one of the many things i didn't
get at first and now i realize it's so
important right
how much time do you give yourself as a
nucia how long
how much can you do that and how long do
you get to be the new person
you know years ago i remember my manager
saying to me at the end of my second
week
okay now the honeymoon is over so what
you gonna do two weeks
two weeks and it's yours yeah
so it's not quite two weeks but i i
think different things
work at a different pace and part of
what i say to
even new execs that i bring on board and
i've just brought three on board you
know because they want to learn they
want to listen they don't want to
um make any decisions too soon based
upon
you know you know first impressions or
not a complete picture and i say to them
when you know you know and therefore
move and the things that you're not
quite sure about then you need to wait
till you are sure about them so i don't
think there's one speed
or it's not the same across all aspects
of the business i think some things you
can move pretty quickly on
and i think others you've got a really
really understand before you make your
move
have you um and i want to talk about
some some some business stuff next but
that how different it was is interesting
have you found that um
because it's flatter in the distribute
world that certain some folks have risen
up in the leadership that might not have
when uh when they weren't in
headquarters
yes actually so there was um there's um
an individual that was part of the
pre-sales team that is now running
a solutions group for us and
um you know she's young in her career
but she's doing fabulous stuff
and yeah she's gotten that exposure
otherwise i don't know
but she's doing an amazing job so it's
great to see things like that for sure
yeah i found that everyone there used to
be someone that was at the bottom corner
of the zoo
but now it's level and one of those
folks just becomes a star
right and they just they couldn't have
in the prior environment right um
are you guys gonna i mean algolia has a
fabulous office in paris
uh or it did and it has roots in sf will
you guys go back to the office have you
figured this out um what's the world
gonna look like uh in 2022
sure well i mean you know you've got you
know leases depends how long your leases
are so
yeah yeah so you've typically got that
for a fixed period of time
but i think the office we will
definitely still keep office locations
but they will
look very different i mean my vision for
that is
they will look like they look more like
cafes
than they will you know rows and rows of
cubes
um so i think they'll look very
different and for us i think they'll
look
a little bit i want to try and get a
little funky with some of the offices
because
we need to collaborate not just in that
location but we'll
need to you know if you're in paris
you'll need to dial somebody in from
from san francisco and vice versa and
how do you do that in a collaborative
space without having to be locked in a
conference room
you know all day so i'm we're gonna
we're gonna get
creative with uh with some of the office
space
yeah um and then just one curious
question
as i've talked because you've been a
pretty pretty pretty experienced manager
a lot of folks have said in the
distributed world you know the seasoned
folks benefit from it right we can work
from home it's quiet
the engineers that have been out of
goalie for several years are the folks
with maybe five or ten years of
experience but training new folks is
harder
in many folks that don't have the roots
have you have you changed anything have
you learned anything about how to
onboard folks in these times because i'm
guessing
20 of al goley has never been to the
office either at this point right
yeah that's right yeah because we've
been hacked pretty pretty aggressively
um i think it requires we've got a
pretty good onboarding process
where it's got to be lots of um
different touch points
and you've got to be very it can't all
be on the hiring manager there's got to
be a team that supports them really
from hr and different parts of the
organization and you can do it
and be pretty lean um but i think you
have to get
fairly creative got it so let's talk
about i just you just announced you
brought on a whole bunch of seasoned
executives some of whom you worked
before cro a cco
and i guess i get there's so many c's a
chief business development officer we
can make up any
acronyms we want right it's the next
phase right crossing 100 million to a
billion so
what um what did you look for in
executives at this phase like
because i we're chatting before we went
live algolia has a brand but not
everyone that's going to listen to this
has heard of algolia um but especially
if you're developer focused or have
built software for a while
and deployed search there's a decent
chance you've heard of algolia at this
point but it's no
it's we're not at the uh microsoft or
adobe level of
a brand not not not even not even a
twilio or
or or something like that right so who
do you need at this next phase to like
to get to nine figures and beyond
revenue what does the makeup look like
how agile versus how senior
what what were you looking for for these
hires yeah it's interesting so
for the cro role i was looking for
somebody who was pretty seasoned
but i didn't want you know a typical
enterprise uh
we do sell into the enterprise but i
didn't want a typical enterprise sales
leader i needed somebody
that was really good at pattern matching
really good at getting to repeatability
a high velocity sale
and then also could span up into the
enterprise as well
so i was looking for definitely somebody
who had
more of a science than an art approach
to the role
um and somebody who was you know pretty
maniacal
about uh understanding our ideal
customer profile
really living and and working
collaboratively with the cmo on the
pipeline and
really making sure that we had focus
because we're a platform and there's
probably many companies out there that
are platform companies
i've done nothing but platforms for the
last 10 years and what i can tell you is
it's extremely hard ramping sales people
to sell a platform because it can be
many things to many people
therefore you have a use case based
approach
where you can kind of get it to be
cookie cutter and you can train people
on you know specific plays that you can
launch into market
so i was looking for somebody who had
that experience
understood that was and had a track
record
of delivering in a high velocity model
and that could flex into the enterprise
for me
now let's let's just dig in a little bit
your cro she last came from dropbox for
business is that right or dropbox
enterprise do i have that right
yep yeah so dropbox is interesting
although different in that it has a long
tail like algolia
longer than algolia right everyone's
used dropbox how many customers does
algolia have
9700 right now okay so 10 000 and how
many
so that we know i don't know how many
folks have used algolia or how many
that have the longest tail including
free and folks it it's probably 10x set
or something isn't it
oh um yes it's close to that if you look
at developers on the platform you know
eyeballs on
open source docs probably close to that
yes
so but high velocity to me
says um high velocity gets me from ten
thousand to twenty thousand to fifty
thousand to a hundred thousand right but
sometimes there's a trade-off
in that you don't you're not able to
spend as much time on closing that that
great
seven-figure deal right uh what is the
trade-off there because you have to your
cro
can do everything but she or he can't be
perfect at everything right everyone has
a has their top insertion points so why
did you pick how do you know when you
have 10 000 customers
which piece of the pie to make your
number one criterion
i think you've got to analyze your
customer base so i mean
we analyzed that 10 000 customers we
understood how many of those were field
managed
we understood um how many were smb mid
market and enterprise
and then we made an assessment as to you
know where
are in the in the short and medium term
where was our biggest opportunity and
then
longer term and that made me want to go
for somebody who most recently had got
the high velocity
but i didn't want to go for exclusively
somebody who
had that skill set i wanted somebody who
had the enterprise too because i didn't
want to have to switch them out in 12
months time
yeah that gets hard right um or you have
to segment it right you have to have two
cross or two senior vice president of
sales and
that's tough to manage two fiefdoms at
the same time isn't it exactly
yeah and um uh
cool and then you hired a chief customer
officer dude when you so now you're
getting a chance to do it again
right you've been a leader you've been a
sales leader you've been a ceo
now it's 2021. so are you thinking any
differently about how
customer success and sales cro and cco
should work together
in these days and uh with new learnings
is any any fresh learnings or new
insights you want to
you want to deploy here yeah i mean for
many years
as you know because you're right i came
up through the ranks on the go to market
side and for many years i did that dual
role
of cro and cco yeah i chose to
break it out and that's how algolia had
it as well when i came
but i chose to break it out because for
a sas company the
customer success function is just so
critical
and i wanted to have somebody that
represented that's all they did they
each slept and breathed our customer
experience and customer journey
i wanted them to have a seat at the
table so that when we're having those
discussions about where we take the
company and
and what we do next that that voice came
out loud and clear and wasn't subjugated
under anybody else
yep and now and when you know i don't
know the exact numbers
today and maybe maybe i'll go is getting
too big to disclose it but as a company
that has a lot of developer centric
roots
accounts do flex and they grow a lot
over time right and some accounts
you'll drop in and it'll be a massive
website with massive search needs and
you'll close a big deal
but there's plenty of accounts that
could start it a few hundred dollars a
month a thousand dollars a month and
grow into big accounts
um when the growth is a lot like a
twilio algolia for accounts
do you think about the line between
sales and success differently do you
think about the handoff do you think
about compensation plans differently
like how do you handle this when there's
a lot of growth a lot of it which could
be automated
right a lot of which could be automated
not require sales
yeah so we have a self-service business
as well
um and that's something that we're we're
starting to
look at and see how we fine tune so over
time one of the questions that i have
is when you start to look at our smb
sector could that smb sector actually be
served
by the self-service engine yeah that's
it
that's it that's it so that's an
interest like
it's an interesting question of when you
have an essence could could there's
obviously an appeal to have it
self-service
right require less people forces you to
do more work on onboarding and
automation than you might otherwise
would right
looks good on an org chart but sometimes
i worry that maybe the
the idea is to put more people into it
because maybe they get ignored
when what if you put 50 people on it
let's say so i don't know and maybe we
don't want to say but let's say
self-service today is 10
of algolia's revenue maybe it was 30
before usually it declines with
companies like algolia right
because the big accounts you know box is
one percent today it used to be 30
right so there's a but what if that 10
percent could be 15
if you put 30 people on it it's an
interesting different way
to think about it um but anyhow
automation is what you're is what you're
thinking about um it does make your
product better right
it does and we just had a vp of growth
as well so
you know we're looking to uh we're
looking to just you know do some
experimentation and
and get some learnings in that space so
let's do one more on sales and then i
want to talk about some other things
that algolia but
maybe this is true of a lot of products
but
certainly in the early days when i
watched delegate a challenge is that
search search is a core part of
basically every web product right and
we'll talk i want to talk a little bit
about e-commerce and sas and media
because
certain segments search is more
important right in e-commerce if you can
find something faster or better the roi
is there other categories are less roi
focused but
we can't find a single website where
search is not only important but usually
at the top
right you go into the nav what's at the
top so but but it's not
something that is always thought about
every week because the decision might be
made every few years every four to five
years you might build a product refresh
a product right
so how do you and a lot of us are that
way right how do you get more top of
mind how do you get
customers and prospects to accelerate a
buying decision or a deployment decision
or a switching decision how do
have you thought more about how to get
more velocity and decision making in
search
yeah i mean so you're right if
somebody's doing a redesign or
a re-platforming it's an obvious time to
think about search
but there are i would say um
you know not all search on every website
is created equal
in safari's search on an e-commerce site
or
a media site that is um selling
subscriptions
is you know there's a such an intrinsic
value between the search and the
conversion
that those types of organizations are
not just looking at it when they
re-platform because they're looking at
it
as how do i optimize my search by
presenting the right kind of
personalized results to the people that
come to my
uh to my site and are searching for
stuff so they are thinking about it on a
more continuous basis
so we try to provide tools to be top of
mind
as they're going through that journey
for example you can go to
algolia.com today and you can on
scroll down on the homepage you can find
the search grader
and that is nothing to do with algolia
it is a tool that anybody with a website
be the e-commerce or a regular
experience website
you can check out it you can go through
an assessment and it will assess
what your search capability is like on
your existing
site so you have to try and get creative
i think to find ways to become
relevant in between those obvious
milestones where they're going to look
at it
now and now and you might have to get me
up to speed on where algolia is in 2020
but
algolia is an api that is deployed by
developers
and its number one segment is e-commerce
and in e-commerce you have marketers
that want
roi lift right they want increased
conversions
so you're marketing and selling to both
marketers and developers which are
pretty far apart on the
on the continuum and spectrum how do you
do both and how does that
change at the next phase right is your
customer mix and buyers change
yeah and i think we've gone through some
of that change already so in the earlier
days we only focused on developers
every developer event algolia was there
right very helper focused right then i
think we pivoted i think we pivoted to
the line of business persona
um and perhaps a little too much so to
me
the bread and butter is focusing on your
core
persona which for us is the definitely
the developer persona
but then you've gotta understand who
your other personas are and really
target them directly so for us it's
actually
category managers uh in e-commerce or
even media and it would be product
managers in a sas
company um or even in a media company
when they're producing a product and
they want search to be embedded
in it it's often the product manager or
the category manager so you've got to
get
specific you can't be all things to all
people you've got to get specific
so who in it was interesting to me
meeting that that the team in the very
beginning is because the company was
focused on inbound and outbound right
targeting buyers so
when you have those personas who are you
from an outbound perspective and
salespeople who who do you target today
who are you trying to get into
get get exposure to get into hanza
um it really is those category owners if
it's a brand it's a brand owner or
it's a product manager in a sas company
so that might be someone mid-level on an
org chart right it might not be the cmo
right or this or the chief product
mid-level and then you're trying to get
them to go
to go knock on the zoom it used to be
knock on the cube or the door you're
trying to get them to knock on the zoom
of the developer and getting them to
to deploy it into a next week and check
out the product or how does that flow go
today
yeah it can go either way in actual fact
so
you know there's a developer relations
component making sure that we're
engaging with the developer community in
that scenario that we're investing in at
the moment
so we often get the pull frankly from
the developer
that then introduces us to the business
person still today still at scale
you're getting developer to knock on the
door but the developer isn't thinking
about roi and e-commerce or are they
thinking about conversions in roi
they i think they are in e-commerce
companies yes
they are but they're all talk about
right well they're also thinking about
their time i mean if covert has taught
us nothing it's that you have to be
agile you have to be nimble
if you don't you know it's got
catastrophic consequences for the
business
so therefore you know they're looking at
it and they're looking at their
how do they differentiate they can't
just do that with using standard ui
layers out there from a
dxp or an e-commerce engine they've got
to take control
of that personalization that ux level
and so then
looking for the right tools to plug in
and so they're pretty
you know they're almost two and a half
you know with um
with the business person these days yeah
it's true
um let's chat a little bit about
segments because when you and i caught
up earlier was
interestingly somewhat interesting um
algolia
is a search-and-service product it has
been it's horizontal it can be used
anywhere
but e-commerce since the early days took
off because the roi was there right
increased conversions through search
that is 10 times faster
and five times more accurate even if you
increase conversions
modestly the the out the outcome could
be huge right for newcomer so
that became number one even within an
early team that was not ecommerce
experts right and then and then i i
i i was always interested in the south
side but media was number two and then
coveted changed things
right so ecommerce still got a boost so
ecommerce number one but but sas became
your largest second largest category of
customers right how did that how many
sas
companies are there and how what does
that mean and how can they be your
second largest category today
you know um i think some of that wave
started prior to covert but
i think it certainly did accelerate as
well i mean we've got you know companies
like weight watchers if you're
logging your food in the weight watchers
app that's algolia powering it
because of the you know the speed and
the accuracy and the relevance of what
what we expose to you
so i think it comes back to being nimble
you know a lot of companies are looking
at putting new products out in the
market they're looking at competing
and they don't want to you know they
want differentiation but they don't want
to build it all from scratch
so therefore they look to us for example
to give them that boost
in terms of you know how long does it
take them from starting with us to being
in production and in market
and that's part of the value that we
offer to the developer we shrink that
window
yep and when and just when you have two
segments of customers like ecommerce and
sas that are very different
so one is focused on maximizing roi and
conversions right
and the other on an average sas company
you want to get to data
quickly and you want to have a sort of a
stripe like elegance of deployment
but the roi is different right the roi
is different and and it's it's critical
to find data in sas we want to find our
data right we want to structure
or really semi-structure unstructured
data that's what search does right i've
got
terabytes of unstructured data but how
do you
how do you market two different rois is
it as simple as landing page do you have
two different sales teams do you
specialize your sales teams
in the different verticals or because
it's a different roi and different
approach how do you how do you do that
in two different
verticals like this yeah you well you've
got some choices to make some of which
have
financial implications but at a bare
minimum you've got to approach them as
two different plays that you're
launching
and you have to have you know separate
you know ideal customer profiles you've
got to have
separate ways that you train your sales
people
on how to be successful how do you
qualify how what's the value they're
going to be interested in
what is the what's the pitch deck it
will be very different for both of those
segments the demos will be very
different for both of those
they are so how long how can you have
the sales same sales team
do this forever how early do you want to
specialize you think
so we have had up until this point the
same sales team do
everything and we'll actually launch an
experiment
um next year where we have um a small
oem
for example sales team um specifically
focused on
those app that the sas companies got it
so starting now right you'll see
so we'll find out if it's if it was late
or early
will we check in when we check in next
year right
um okay two or two other things i want
to make sure we we touch on before we
run out of time we can hit anything else
you want
but um one that i'm really bad at um but
learning about more is culture um
because i i still always wonder what
culture is
um but algolia is interesting because
it's it's it it's
really we're all distributed now but
it's like it's a company with
roots on very different con continents
and a very french piece
um what if you are are our cultures
different how do we blend cultures are
people different i like to think of
everyone as the same and it's a
meritocracy and
and be neutral but it's not true right
there are there are differences so what
if how do you blend
companies on different continents and
different cultures
yeah and i guess i've been lucky because
in my last three roles
they've been with companies that are
very similar to algolia and they've had
two big centers of presence on different
continents here in
western europe um you know i used to
live in
uh switzerland and france so i speak
french and i've lived in
you know lived in continental europe so
i do think that helps me sort of bridge
a little but i think it comes down to
two things for me you know you said what
is culture
culture i think can be nebulous but you
can impact culture
and it's you can impact it every single
day and every single person in the
company can impact it
by the decisions and the actions that
they take and all the conglomeration of
all of that
really makes up the culture so i like to
get it out of the stratosphere and
down into the sort of practical for me
because i struggled with it for many
years too
but when i look at it here at
algolia i think there's two things that
are important one
i think you have to educate people on
the fact that not everybody has the same
perspective and here's why
so i think there's a there's a sharing
that you've got to take the time
to do which in the moment can sometimes
be
challenging because you want to get to
the end of that task but you have to
take a step back sometimes and
understand
um and i think the second thing is that
you know there's been a lot of focus in
the press and the media
all around differences right now and you
know diversity inclusion and belonging
is a
at the top of everybody's minds at the
moment
to me i like to see the differences
as making us stronger it doesn't mean to
say we'll always all agree
it doesn't mean to say that um you know
anybody or any one perspective is better
than another but i like to think about
how do we
harness our differences to make us
better
you know some could say that you know
it's it's a it's um
it's inconvenient having a nine hour
difference um
between san francisco office and paris
and occasionally it is
trust me um but um but the other side of
that is how do you get that time
difference to work
where you don't have a single point of
failure and where it's effectively you
are getting you know
almost 24 hours coverage now i wouldn't
say we're there today
but that's the journey that we're on and
i think it's it's recognizing that
people have different perspectives
that's okay but the one mission is the
same
yeah is there anything now that you've
joined like you know to
put those different perspectives to
surface more of them at the company do
you have any tips or learnings how to
get those out
i mean how many folks work at i'll go
away today 400 500 folks
approaching 400 400 so how do you how do
you surface
have you tried to surface more of them
or how do you do that
we have actually a couple well i mean
you know two weeks into
my role here um george floyd was killed
and you know we started talking about
that
we had different listening circles
it was interesting because as we saw you
know the social unrest that followed all
of the
those events as we saw those sort of
traverse the world
you know we saw some of the um
perspectives of our colleagues in other
countries
change as you know that's really an
american problem
oh actually no hold on those riots are
happening here on my doorstep
now that's not just an american problem
so
you know nobody wants any of that to
happen but it does
enable you to have the dialogue
yep it's a good insight okay two last
things i want to hit
um one's very tactical but it's always
interesting to folks is pricing
um so you've recently revamped pricing
right
pricing's always it's generally i think
we obsessed about it sometimes too much
but algolia has always been interesting
because over time they've always
struggled with the breaks
right the break points between uh you
know a
a a very a low usage free version a
cheap version of developers to get
started
more enterprise in the middle and the
brakes have always been challenging for
the company for whatever reasons right
they've always been challenging
to not overprice not under price um it's
not obvious right it's not obvious
and so what if what what have you
changed and maybe even more importantly
what have you learned about the
different ways to price
sure so i think one of the learnings is
it's really hard when you go all the way
from self-service
all the way up to the enterprise to have
one model that fits
all so one of the things that we changed
back in july was we actually went to a
usage model so that we didn't have these
artificial breaks
we have just two plans and it's
usage based now you can do pay as you go
just sign up on the websites
you know swipe your credit card or you
can commit
and higher volumes that involves a sales
conversation
but we found that those are what it did
was it removed those artificial
sort of jump points there's a much
smoother curve now
so that customers feel much more
comfortable that they're they're
buying into a certain level of usage
that is tied to their business
outcome uh as opposed to having to have
artificial tears
or to even you know in the old days we
used to have infrastructure-based
pricing which you know
they liked even less yeah so going for
usage smoothing out that curve
has definitely been a big boon for us
and it has boosted the self-service
business tremendously
um i still think it's tricky to get it
right all the way from there up to the
enterprise with one model so will we
tweak it still we probably will
but now now that again and i wanted to
ask a little bit about that but
in my limited experience as a seo but
also my limited experience as an svp in
a bigger company certainty does matter
too
right so there's a certain point where
it's not fun i don't care about the
benefits of that when i'm a big when i i
don't know what the amount of revenue
company has i want to
i have a budget i have a budget
bernadette and just tell me
what it's gonna like and so that's the
the the
artificial breaks it sounds like they
stressed out sales right oh that's too
much
you know a thousand two thousand five
thousand is too much but certainty does
matter too
right so so that's where where does that
where does that change and how do you
educate the sales team to get that right
yes so we have a certain volume that you
can buy via self-service and then after
that we believe that a conversation is
better
and that's why we even though it's usage
based you sign up for
an amount of usage over a 12 month
period so that you do get that budget
uncertainty
have you studied like i mean obviously
who's figured this out pretty good is
aws
everyone complain i mean amws used to be
cheap
if we've been doing this for a long time
we remember when it was cheap now it's
very expensive but it's worth it right
i don't think we're going to argue it's
not worth i mean algolia is multi-cloud
which we could chat about for the last
minutes if you wanted to and what you've
learned but um
but they've learned to start off
variable and then have multi-year
contracts right as you go bigger right
and
have you studied anything you've learned
from other folks here that you've
brought into algolia are there other
folks
that you that you that you look at their
pricing strategies and want to bring
them in
yeah we do we look at azure we look at
um aws we look at those two in
particular as well as a whole host of
other
um sas companies when we were doing the
uh the pricing analysis
and yes we have you know i always used
to say you know aws they have you know
the pay-as-you-go
then they have reserved instances and
then they have their edps which you know
could be 20 million
so we we basically have the same thing
we have this
you know swipe your credit card pay as
you go but then we have
uh what they would call the reserved
instance it's not an instance it's a
reserved number of searches if you like
you would do with us that would be our
comparable um for a certain period of
time
and yes if you want to buy it for one
year or two years or three years we'd
never go
beyond three years um but we would go up
to three years and we have programs for
all of that
all right one last follow-up on that we
could spend a whole session on pricing
but
i still hear a lot of advice from folks
cloud investors sas investors in
particular vcs
that want the most revenue recurring
like and under fixed contracts
and when trillo ipo a lot of folks were
skeptical though twilio is going to take
a hit toyota's going to take hit because
they're concentrated well they were they
lost uber
and twilio's going to take a hit because
they have a lot of variable revenue
right well what's truly today 40 billion
so
and i don't think they're multiple has
but does that matter do you think about
that as ceo do you want do you still
want as much committed revenue versus
variable does this not even matter as
long as you hit your number
um i do think about it and in fact i've
spoken to a number of the
number of bankers recently that yes
several
um of the well-known ipos to those
software companies public just recently
and you know they have an interesting
um take on it and the usage provided
it's consistent and growing and it's not
lumpy
they value the usage the same way as
they would just a regular subscription
so that's the insight right as long as
you see the same retention numbers
right twilio's like 145 net revenue
retention
right growth you don't have to have the
perfect
uh e-signed contracts for every month
for the same amount right that's the
learning right
yeah exactly consistency and consistency
up into the right is
is you know is the key learning well
ideally if you have ten thousand
customers and high nps the consistency
should work itself out over time right
yeah for sure that's cool all right
that's a good insight okay last one
they're related
um i just you've been you've been in
enterprise
software and business sovereign cloud
software most of your career right
are these are the best of times aren't
they oh my god absolutely
so is it too good how long will it last
and relate to that why did you pick
algolia in the best of times you had a
lot of options so
this is as good as it gets why why
algolia and in general
how long do we have another five years
do we have 20 years is this all going to
crash on us when we come out of kobe
like how long will the best of times
last
oh lord i wish i had the crystal ball
for that one
i think we all do um so why did i why
did i choose algolia
um it was really it was it was
really because of three main things i
mean i looked at the i looked at the
market the target
addressable marketing is huge and i have
experience in search previously from
both ends of our competitive spectrum
all the way from open source down to
purpose-built sas packages
and i firmly believe that algolia's
approach to the market being
an api um such as a service solution is
100 the right way to go so those were
the primary reasons
the other reason was um i love the fact
that there was a self-service business
because i believed it would make our
product
better i wanted to get more exposure in
that part
that end of the market and then finally
i saw the you know
every company has its growing pains and
i felt that i'd seen a good chunk of
this movie before and that i could help
yeah that's it let's finish on the
mission but the last one's interesting
um you know when a company goes through
phase transitions or growing pains a
great one like algolia
sometimes you think you can't recruit
somebody great right if you hit a bump
but the great people
know those bumps right and actually
they'll they'll jump on those
opportunities because they know how to
fix them they've done it before
so if you hit a bump don't think you
can't hire a great vp of sales or vpn
marketing or ceo
because they they know they know when
that's an opportunity don't they
oh 100 absolutely that's the you know
yeah it's um it's a it's a great
opportunity and like you said i mean
you look at the backdrop of the market
that we're in right now
and you know gosh i don't know how long
this is going to last but what i would
say is you got to run with it and you've
got to be
you've got to be agile yourself to be
able to take a hold of things and i
would say
if there are companies out there that
are looking
at how to um how to harness
this i would say really get serious
about your icp your ideal customer
profile
and go figure out you know one of the
things that i
i did at alfresco was we figured out
what were the
four questions we could ask we got
marketing to automate them
and based upon that we segmented the
target customers we wanted to go after
into three buckets digital innovators
fast followers and
digital dinosaurs we put the dinosaurs
in a drawer and we figured on the other
two
so anything that you can do to
streamline and as
i was saying before get to that
repeatable process
to really maximize the opportunity that
is there i think
that's what everybody should be focusing
on and also carpe diem right now is the
time
all right this was amazing thank you so
much for your time anything anything
last thing we didn't hit that you wanted
to hit or get out there
no i think it's just um you know i i'm
loving being at algolia just the
approach that we've got to
helping our customers and you lay that
on top of fantastic technology and
a great approach to the market and it's
it's a it's a great time to be at
algolia we're
recruiting heavily and so i would
encourage people to uh ping us
thank us go join up go join a pre-apo
winner today